                         Partitioning a Disk
          fdisk
The traditional Linux tool for MBR disk partitioning is called 'fdisk'. This tool's name is short for fixed disk.
To use 'fdisk', type the command name followed by the name of the disk device.
              fdisk /dev/sd[x]
Which will take you to fdisk utility for that give disk device
Using these option below will bring up prompts:
  Display the Current Partition Table: p or fdisk -l /dev/sd[x] (at command prompt rather than enter fdisk's interactive mode)
  Create a Partition: n
A series of prompts asking for information like: primary, extended or logical. Partition's starting clinder; the partition's ending cylinder 
or size. Older versions of 'fdisk' measure partition start and end points in cylinders, not megabytes. Recent versions of 'fdisk' use sectors
as the default unit of measure, although you can specify a partition's size by using a plus sign, number, and suffix +20G create 20GiB partition.
  Delete a Partition: d
If more than one partition exists, the program will ask for the partition number.
  Change a Partition's type: t
'fdisk' will assign 0x83 type code which corresponds to Linux filesystem. I you want to create a Linux swap partition or any other OS
partition, type t and a prompt will ask you for the partition type code.
  List Partition Types: l
Type l at the main 'fdisk' prompt to list partition type
Type L at the change partition prompt to list partition type
  Mark a Partition Bootable: a
Some OSs, such as Windows, rely on their partitions having special bootable flags in order to boot. Type a, whereupon 'fdisk' asks
for the partition number.
  Get Help: m or ?
  Exit: q without saving or w write change and quit
  
        gdisk  
If you're working with a GPT-formatted hard drive, you'll need to use the 'gdisk' utility.
              gdisk /dev/sd[x]
It works exactly like the 'fdisk' utility.
*Remember that the GPT format doesn't use primary, extended, or logical partitions-all of the partitions are the same.

        GNU Parted
GNU Parted is a partitioning tool that works with MBR, GPT, APM, and BSD, and other disk types.
              parted /dev/sd[x]
                        or
              parted        # entering the utility
              select        # select disk device
print : display information
mklabel gpt : create a GPT disk
mkpart primary ext4 1024k 2tb : create new partition as primary and file system type ext4

Once a partition is created, you must prepare it for use. This process is often called "making a filesystem" or "formatting a partition".
Low-level formatting, which creates a structure of sectors and tracks on the disk media, or High-level formatting, which creates a filesystem.
Hard disks are low-level formatted at the factory and should never need to be low-level formatted again.

                    Filesystem Types
ext2 or ext2fs: The second extended file system                    
  Has a reputation as a reliable filesystem, a good choice for a small /boot parttition, non-journaling (log files)
ext3 or ext3fs: The third extended file system
  Basically ext2 with journal added
ext4 or ext4fs: The fourth extended file system
  Ability to work with very large disks >16TiB and very large file >2TiB
ReiserFS
  Designed from scratch as a journaling filesystem. Good at handling large number of small files. Uses various tricks to squeeze the end
  of files into each other's unused space.
JFS: Journaled File System
  IBM developed. For AIX OS on mainframe systems and workstation OS, called OS/2. After the demise of OS/2, JFS was donated to Linux.
  Sophisticated journaling filesystem.
XFS: Extents File System
  Created by Silicon Graphics (SGI). Robustness, speed, and flexibility.
Btrfs: 
  Fast performer, and it is able to handle very large disk and file.
FAT: File Allocation Table
  Limited to 8 character with an optional 3 character extension (8.3 filename) 
  Can not transfer file over 4GiB
NTFS: New Technology File System
  Preferred filesystem for Windows. NTFS-3G driver is the default for Linux distro to read NTFS files.
HFS and HFS+: Hierarchical File System
  Apple's filesystem.
ISO-9660:*
  Standard filesystem for CD-ROMs
UDF: Universal Disc Format
  Used on DVD-ROMs

*mkisofs creates an ISO-9660 filesystem
*cdrecord writes this image to a blank CD-R
*growisofs program combines both function but works only on recordable DVD media
