    The X GUI Login System
X is a network-enabled GUI. 
Network login protocol, The X Display Manager Control Protocol (XDMCP). 
To handle remote logins, an XDMCP server runs on a computer and listens for connections from remote computers' X servers.
To handle local logins, an XDMCP server runs on a computer and starts the local computer's X servers.

    Five XDMCP servers are common on Linux:
X Display Manager (XDM)
KDE Display Manager (KDM)
GNOME Display Manager (GDM)
Light Display Manager (LightDM)

Many distributions configure themselves to run their chosen XDMCP server when they start in runlevel5 but not when they start in
runlevel3. This is the only difference between these two runlevels in most cases.

Permanently changing the runlevel on a SysV-based system requires editing the /etc/inittab file and, in particular, its id line:
    id:5:initdefault:
    
A few distributions attempt to start an XDMCP server in all runlevels. 
This is done through the use of a SysV startup script called: xdm, kdm, or gdm.

You can temporarily start or stop the XDMCP server by running this script and passing it the 'start' or 'stop' option. To enable or 
disable the XDMCP server permanently, you should adjust your SysV startup scripts.

Most distributions set a default XDMCP server in one way or another. Two common methods exist:
  Selection via Configuration file:
Some distributions hide the XDMCP server choice in a configuration file, often in the /etc/sysconfig directory.
In Fedora, the /etc/sysconfig/desktop file sets the DISPLAYMANAGER variable to the path to the executable, as in DISPLAYMANAGER=/bin/xdm.
In openSUSE, /etc/sysconfig/displaymanager sets the DISPLAYMANAGER variable to the display manageer's name in lowercase letters, as in
DISPLAYMANAGER="xdm"
  Selection via Startup Script:
In Debian and derivative distributions, such as Ubuntu, the display manager is set via a SysV, Upstart, or systemd startup script
use the gdm script to use GDM, kdm to use KDM, and so on. By default, only one XDMCP server is installed.



    Configuring an XDMCP Server
XDM is the simplest of the major XDMCP servers. It accepts usernames and passwords, but it doesn't enable  users to perform other actions,
such as choosing which desktop environment to run.
XDM's main configuration file is /etc/X11/xdm/xdm-config
If you want to enable the computer to respond to remote login requests from other X servers on the network, or if you want to verify
that the sytem is not configured accordingly, you should pay attention to this line:
    DisplayManager.requestPort: 0
This line tells XDM not to access a conventional server port. To activate XDM as a remote login server, you should change 0 to 177,
the traditional XDMCP port. You must then restart XDM.
The /etc/X11/xdm/Xaccess file is another important XDM configuration file. If XDM is configurated to permit remote access, this file
controls who may access the XDM server and in what ways. A wide-open system contains lines that use an asterisk * to denote that 
anybody may access the system.
   *
   * CHOOSER BROADCAST
The first line tells XDM that anybody may connect, and the second line tells XDM that anybody may request a chooser a display of
local systems that accept XDMCP connections. To limit the choices, you should list individual computers or groups of computers instead
of using the asterisk wildcard:
    *.pangaea.edu
    tux.example.com
    *.pangaea.edu CHOOSER BROADCAST
This example lets any computer in the pangaea.edu domain connect to or receive a chooser, and it also lets tux.example.com connect
to but not receive a chooser. Many addiional options are set in the /etc/X11/xdm/Xresources file; it hosts X resources, which are
similar to environment variables but apply only to X-base programs.

