            Examining Process Lists
      ps (processes's status): monitoring what's happening on a system.
ps supports three different types of options as well as many options within each type:
  1) Unix98 Options: These single-character options may be grouped together and are preceded by a single dash (-).
  2) BSD Options: These single-character options may be grouped together and must not be preceded by a dash.
  3) GNU Long Option: These multi-character options are never grouped together. They're preceded by two dashes (--).

 Options that may be grouped together may be clustered without spaces between them. For instance, rather than typing ps -a -f >> ps -af
 The reason for so complexity is that the ps utility has a varied a lot from one Unix OS to another.
 You can change some of its default behaviors by setting the PS_PERSONALITY environment variable to posix,old,linux,bsd,sun,digital.


            ps Option:
  Display Help: --help
  Display All Processes: 
-A and -e: Cause it to display all of the processes on the system, by default ps only display processes that were run from its own terminal.
-x: displays all the processes owned by the user who gives the command
  Display One User's Processes: -u [username] or U [username] or --User [username]
You can display processes owned by a given user with username or user ID.
  Display Extra Information: -f, -l, j, l, u, v
Expand the information provided in the ps output.
  Display Process Hierarchy: -H, -f, and --forest
Group processes and use indentation to show the hierarchy of relationships between processes.
  Display Wide Output: -w or w
Normally ps output to fit the screen or xterm; ps can output more than 80 columns wide. You can set the wide columns with w option for more information.

          Columns details:
Username:
    This is the name of the user who runs the programs.
Process ID (PID):
    PID is a number that's associated with the process.
Parent Process ID (PPID):
    PPID identifes the process's parent.
TTY teletype:
    a code used to identify a terminal. X program and daemons do not have tty. Text-mode programs doe have tty which point to a console/xterm.
CPU time:
    
CPU Priority
Memory Use
Command

