    Standard keyboard and mouse options

  Sticky Keys:
When enabled, this option causes keyboard modifier keys (Ctrl, Alt, and Shift) to "stick" when pressed, affecting the next regular key to
be pressed even after release of the sticky key.
  Toggle Keys:
When enabled plays a sound cue when the locking keys (Caps lock, Num lock, or Scroll lock) are pressed. A high-pitched sound plays when
the features are activated, and a low-pitched sound plays when the features are deactivated.
  Mouse Keys:
This option enables you to use the cursor keypad on your keyboard to emulate a mouse.  
  Bounce (or Debounce) keys:
If a user tends to press a single key accidentally multiple times, the bounce keys option may be able to compensate for this tendency.  
  Slow Keys:
When activated, this option requires a key to be pressed for longer than a specified period of time before it registers as a keypress.  
  Keyboard Repeat Rate:
The repeat delay and rate can be set using sliders. These settings override those set in the X configuration file, but if you use a bare
window manager, you may need to set these options in the X configuration file.
  Time Out:
In AccessX, the TimeOut option sets a time after which its accessibility options will be disabled.
  Mouse tracking and click option:
The ordinar mouse tracking and click options can be adjusted to unusual values for those who have special needs.  
  Simulated mouse clicks:
Some environments let you configure the mouse to simulate a click whenever the mouse pointer stops moving or to simulate a double click
whenever the mouse button is pressed for an extended period.
  Mouse Gestures:
Gestures are similar to keyboard shortcuts but are designed for mice. They permit you to activate program options by moving your mouse
in particular ways.



The GNOME desktop development team created the GNOME On-Screen Keyboard (GOK)
Newer versions of the GNOME desktop have replaced GOK with Caribou



    Adjusting default fonts
Most desktop environments provides options to set the default fonts used on the screen. System settings dialop box provided with KDE.
You can access this by typing 'systemsettings' in the terminal window.

Screen magnifier is KMag

    Speak
Orca: a screen reader that's been integrated into GNOME 2.16 and later
Emacspeck: program aims to enable those with visual impairments to use a linux computer.

    Braille
A braille display is a special type of computer monitor that display tactile display of textual information in braille.
The BRITTY project (mielke.cc/brltty/)

    
