dmidecode is a tool for dumping a computer's DMI (some say SMBIOS ) table contents in a human-readable format.

Options
-d, --dev-mem FILE
Read memory from device FILE (default: /dev/mem)
-q, --quiet
Be less verbose. Unknown, inactive and OEM -specific entries are not displayed. Meta-data and handle references are hidden.
-s, --string KEYWORD
Only display the value of the DMI string identified by KEYWORD. KEYWORD must be a keyword from the following list: bios-vendor, bios-version, bios-release-date, system-manufacturer, system-product-name, system-version, system-serial-number, system-uuid, baseboard-manufacturer, baseboard-product-name, baseboard-version, baseboard-serial-number, baseboard-asset-tag, chassis-manufacturer, chassis-type, chassis-version, chassis-serial-number, chassis-asset-tag, processor-family, processor-manufacturer, processor-version, processor-frequency. Each keyword corresponds to a given DMI type and a given offset within this entry type. Not all strings may be meaningful or even defined on all systems. Some keywords may return more than one result on some systems (e.g. processor-version on a multi-processor system). If KEYWORD is not provided or not valid, a list of all valid keywords is printed and dmidecode exits with an error. This option cannot be used more than once.
-t, --type TYPE
Only display the entries of type TYPE. TYPE can be either a DMI type number, or a comma-separated list of type numbers, or a keyword from the following list: bios, system, baseboard, chassis, processor, memory, cache, connector, slot. Refer to the DMI TYPES section below for details. If this option is used more than once, the set of displayed entries will be the union of all the given types. If TYPE is not provided or not valid, a list of all valid keywords is printed and dmidecode exits with an error.
-u, --dump
Do not decode the entries, dump their contents as hexadecimal instead. Note that this is still a text output, no binary data will be thrown upon you. The strings attached to each entry are displayed as both hexadecimal and ASCII . This option is mainly useful for debugging.
--dump-bin FILE
Do not decode the entries, instead dump the DMI data to a file in binary form. The generated file is suitable to pass to --from-dump later.
--from-dump FILE
Read the DMI data from a binary file previously generated using --dump-bin.
-h, --help
Display usage information and exit
-V, --version
Display the version and exit
Options --string, --type and --dump-bin determine the output format and are mutually exclusive.

Dmi Types
The SMBIOS specification defines the following DMI types:
Type	Information
0
1	System
2	Base Board
3	Chassis
4	Processor
5	Memory Controller
6	Memory Module
7	Cache
8	Port Connector
9	System Slots
10	On Board Devices
11	OEM Strings
12	System Configuration Options
13	BIOS Language
14	Group Associations
15	System Event Log
16	Physical Memory Array
17	Memory Device
18	32-bit Memory Error
19	Memory Array Mapped Address
20	Memory Device Mapped Address
21	Built-in Pointing Device
22	Portable Battery
23	System Reset
24	Hardware Security
25	System Power Controls
26	Voltage Probe
27	Cooling Device
28	Temperature Probe
29	Electrical Current Probe
30	Out-of-band Remote Access
31	Boot Integrity Services
32	System Boot
33	64-bit Memory Error
34	Management Device
35	Management Device Component
36	Management Device Threshold Data
37	Memory Channel
38	IPMI Device
39	Power Supply
40	Additional Information
41	Onboard Device

Additionally, type 126 is used for disabled entries and type 127 is an end-of-table marker. Types 128 to 255 are for OEM -specific data. dmidecode will display these entries by default, but it can only decode them when the vendors have contributed documentation or code for them.

Keywords can be used instead of type numbers with --type. Each keyword is equivalent to a list of type numbers:

Keyword	Types
bios
system	1, 12, 15, 23, 32
baseboard	2, 10, 41
chassis	3
processor	4
memory	5, 6, 16, 17
cache	7
connector	8
slot	9
Keywords are matched case-insensitively. The following command lines are equivalent:

dmidecode --type 0 --type 13
dmidecode --type 0,13
dmidecode --type bios
dmidecode --type BIOS
